---
title: 'Contributing'
order: 0
---

## Get started

First get the [repository](https://github.com/adeo/integration-web-core--socle) and clone it. 

### How to work with tokens 

To be more efficient and transparent if a useful information of a component need to be change, we can do it easily in appropriate token therefore change all the occurences in source code. So for now, we want you to use it, and this is how to do it : 

#### Create your token files 

In the token directory at root of repository, create a `myToken.json` file with all the data needed to generate your component. 

After that, you can run this npm command `npm run token` to generate each token file for each language : 

* SCSS
* Freemarker 
* Javascript 

##### Token in SCSS 

Directly in `css/assets/sass/_common/01-setting-tools/_all-settings.scss` import your token file like this : 

`@import '../../_tokens/accordion.scss';`

Now you're ready to work with your token inside any SCSS file from the socle. 


##### Token in Freemarker 

Inside your macro file, import the token file like this : 

`<#import "./tokens/buttons.ftl" as jsonButtons>`

Now you can access like a classical hash in freemarker to your data. 

##### Token in javascript

Top of your file, import the token file : 

`import config from '../tokens/tooltip.json';`

Now you can access like a classical JSON Object inside your source code. 

### Write the good Freemarker macro 

We choose to make a 180° turn of how we write Freemarker's macro now. Please be respectful and follow this precipes. 

Now, we only write essentials things inside macro, it means that we will only write config hash for usefull properties to generate the component, other things that it's only needed in specific case like custom HTML class, special HTML data attributes... will be not write inside macro configuration hash, but like custom parameters. 

This is an example how you deal with that concept : 

`<#macro button configButton={} dataSup...>`

Each data that will be write that it's not declared as a know parameter. Will be inside a hash generated by Freemarker in `dataSup`. 

So after that to construct HTML data attributes, you can do it : 

```java
<#assign dataAttributes=""/>
<#if dataSup?is_hash>
    <#list dataSup as key, value>
        <#if key != 'class'>
            <#assign dataAttributes = dataAttributes + " ${key}=\"${value}\""/>
        </#if>
    </#list>
</#if>
```

Now you can pass your `dataAttributes` inside the good HTML tag you want to append it with a litteral string `${dataAttributes}`. 

If you want you can go on `buttons.ftl` to see how it work and have a real example. 
